docs/source/02_get_started/05_management.md, before:

# Management
## Monitor your QHub deployment
TODO: add instruction on how to install and use K9s for monitoring the system deployment.

## Add users to QHub
One of the first things you might want to do is to **add new users** to your QHub.

 Any type of supported authorization from auth0 can be used as a username. Below is an example configuration of 2 users:

        joeuser@example:
            uid: 1000000
            primary_group: users
            secondary_groups:
                - billing
                - admin
        janeuser@example.com:
            uid: 1000001
            primary_group: users

As seen above, each username has a unique `uid` and a `primary_group`. 
Optional `secondary_groups` may also be set for each user.




## Upgrades and dependencies management
### Update/edit a Conda Virtual Environment

To update a current conda environment and redeploy you will need to:
* Create a new branch on your repository
* Make changes to the `qhub-config.yaml` file under the `environments` key.
> NOTE: in [YAML](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#mapping//),
  each level is a dictionary key, and every 2 white spaces represent values for those keys.
  
To add a new environment, add two spaces below the `environments` key such as the example below.
```yaml
environments:
  "example.yaml":
    name: example
    channels:
    - conda-forge
    dependencies:
    - python
    - pandas
```

Commit the changes, and make a [PR](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
into a master branch. The update will take from 5 to 30 minutes to complete, depending on the environment's complexity. 
If after 30 minutes the new environment is still not available, check the latest log files from the user instance in the
`/home/conda/store/.logs` directory to troubleshoot.

Commit message:

Create shared/.userskel folder to be copied to users' home (#521)
* Create shared/.userskel folder to be copied to users' home

* docs for userskel

docs/source/02_get_started/05_management.md, after:

# Management

## Add users to QHub
One of the first things you might want to do is to **add new users** to your QHub.

 Any type of supported authorization from auth0 can be used as a username. Below is an example configuration of 2 users:

        joeuser@example:
            uid: 1000000
            primary_group: users
            secondary_groups:
                - billing
                - admin
        janeuser@example.com:
            uid: 1000001
            primary_group: users

As seen above, each username has a unique `uid` and a `primary_group`. 
Optional `secondary_groups` may also be set for each user.




## Upgrades and dependencies management
### Update/edit a Conda Virtual Environment

To update a current conda environment and redeploy you will need to:
* Create a new branch on your repository
* Make changes to the `qhub-config.yaml` file under the `environments` key.
> NOTE: in [YAML](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#mapping//),
  each level is a dictionary key, and every 2 white spaces represent values for those keys.
  
To add a new environment, add two spaces below the `environments` key such as the example below.
```yaml
environments:
  "example.yaml":
    name: example
    channels:
    - conda-forge
    dependencies:
    - python
    - pandas
```

Commit the changes, and make a [PR](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
into a master branch. The update will take from 5 to 30 minutes to complete, depending on the environment's complexity. 
If after 30 minutes the new environment is still not available, check the latest log files from the user instance in the
`/home/conda/store/.logs` directory to troubleshoot.

## Copy Files into Users' Home Folders

Within their own JupyterLab sessions, admins can add files to a folder called `shared/.userskel`. Any files in there will be copied to a user's own home folder whenever they start a new JupyterLab session. Existing files with the same name will not be overwritten. Admin users are defined as members of the admin group as specified in your qhub-config.yaml file.

## Monitor your QHub deployment
TODO: add instruction on how to install and use K9s for monitoring the system deployment.
