docs/index.md, before:

# QHub Cloud
![quansight_logo](source/meta_images/qhub_logo.png)

[![Python version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8-blue.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/qhub/)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/qhub.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/qhub)
[![Conda version](https://img.shields.io/badge/conda--forge-v0.2.3-%234f28a8)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/qhub)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/quansight/qhub-cloud?style=plastic)](https://github.com/Quansight/qhub-cloud/issues/new/choose)


Open source tooling for data science research, development, and deployment.

## What is Qhub?
Integrated data science environment designed and developed by scientists at [**Quansight**](https://www.quansight.com/).
It enables teams to build and maintain a cost effective and scalable compute/data science platform in the Cloud, providing 
an [**Infrastructure as Code**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code) platform that streamlines
the deployment of data science infrastructure.

Contents:

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Introduction
    
source/01_intro/01_intro.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Get Started

source/02_get_started/01_installation.md
source/02_get_started/02_setup.md
source/02_get_started/03_usage.md
source/02_get_started/04_configuration.md
source/02_get_started/05_management.md
source/02_get_started/06_troubleshooting.md
source/02_get_started/07_support.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Tutorials

source/03_tutorials_and_samples/1_project_setup_tutorial.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: How-To Guides

source/04_how_to_guides/1_qhub-aws-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/2_qhub-gcp-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/3_qhub-do-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/4_system_backup.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Reference

source/05_reference/01_qhub_infrastructure.md
source/05_reference/02_system_maintenance.md
source/05_reference/03_base_cost.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Development

source/06_developers_contrib_guide/01_architecture.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/02_adv_docs.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/04_tests.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/05_changelog.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/06_versioning.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Resources

source/07_resources/1_logos.md
source/07_resources/2_glossary.md
```

Commit message:

update docs (#441)
This PR aims to address the changes specified on issue #381.

It details how users should choose their version of QHub and addresses some other small issues such as:
- Remove mention of Terraform from `Get Started` and `Installation` sections of the docs
- Addition of `Base costs` file, `Changelog`, and provisional tutorials files.
- Minor fix on `local deployment` docs
- Insert debug K9s image on `troubleshooting` section
- Change the intro image to match README* add_changelog

docs/index.md, after:

# QHub Cloud
![quansight_logo](source/meta_images/qhub_logo.png)

[![Python version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8-blue.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/qhub/)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/qhub.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/qhub)
[![Conda version](https://img.shields.io/badge/conda--forge-v0.2.3-%234f28a8)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/qhub)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/quansight/qhub-cloud?style=plastic)](https://github.com/Quansight/qhub-cloud/issues/new/choose)


Open source tooling for data science research, development, and deployment.

## What is Qhub?
Integrated data science environment designed and developed by scientists at [**Quansight**](https://www.quansight.com/).
It enables teams to build and maintain a cost effective and scalable compute/data science platform in the Cloud, providing
an [**Infrastructure as Code**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code) platform that streamlines
the deployment of data science infrastructure.

Contents:

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Introduction

source/01_intro/01_intro.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Get Started

source/02_get_started/01_installation.md
source/02_get_started/02_setup.md
source/02_get_started/03_usage.md
source/02_get_started/04_configuration.md
source/02_get_started/05_management.md
source/02_get_started/06_troubleshooting.md
source/02_get_started/07_support.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Tutorials

source/03_tutorials_and_samples/1_project_setup_tutorial.md
source/03_tutorials_and_samples/01_cloud_setup.md
source/03_tutorials_and_samples/02_qhub_pangeo.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: How-To Guides

source/04_how_to_guides/1_qhub-aws-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/2_qhub-gcp-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/3_qhub-do-deploy_guide.md
source/04_how_to_guides/4_system_backup.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Reference

source/05_reference/01_qhub_infrastructure.md
source/05_reference/02_system_maintenance.md
source/05_reference/03_base_cost.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Development

source/06_developers_contrib_guide/01_architecture.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/02_adv_docs.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/04_tests.md
source/06_developers_contrib_guide/05_changelog.md
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:caption: Resources

source/07_resources/1_logos.md
source/07_resources/2_glossary.md
```
